README.md, before:

gp2y0e03-address-programmer
===

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/dbaba/gp2y0e03-address-programmer.svg)](https://github.com/dbaba/gp2y0e03-address-programmer/releases/latest)
[![License MIT](https://img.shields.io/github/license/dbaba/gp2y0e03-address-programmer.svg)](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

A tool for modifying [GP2Y0E03](http://www.sharp-world.com/products/device/lineup/data/pdf/datasheet/gp2y0e03_e.pdf) I2C address with E-Fuse running on mbed device.

# Schematic

    STM32F401RE Nucleo        GP2Y0E03
    +----------------+        +------+
    |           GND ------------ GND |
    |                |        |      |
    |      SDA(D14) -------+---- SDA |
    |                |     |  |      |
    |                |  <R4K7>|      |
    |                |     |  |      |
    |           3V3 -------+---- VIN |
    |                |     |  |      |
    |                |     +---- VDD |
    |                |     |  |      |
    |                |     +---- GPIO|
    |                |     |  |      |
    |                |  <R4K7>|      |
    |                |     |  |      |
    |      SCL(D15) -------+---- SCL |
    |                |        |      |
    |            D7 ------------ Vpp |
    |                |        |      |
    +----------------+        +------+

 * R4K7 ... 4.7K Ohm pull-up resistor
 * Vout(A) is never used for I2C

# How to setup (w/ ST Nucleo F401RE)

    yt target st-nucleo-f401re-gcc
    yt install

# How to flash

Copy `build/st-nucleo-f401re-gcc/source/gp2y0e03-address-programmer.bin` to the mbed folder or use st-flash as shown below.

    st-flash write build/st-nucleo-f401re-gcc/source/gp2y0e03-address-programmer.bin 0x8000000

# How to modify address

## Edit the address data

Open [app.cpp](source/app.cpp) and edit the following line to modify the address.

    #define NEW_ADDRESS_DATA 0x01

Note that `NEW_ADDRESS_DATA` is NOT a slave address. Choose the `Data` column value of the following table.

| Slave ID | 7-bit Address |   Data   |
|----------|---------------|----------|
| 0x00     | 0x00          | **0x00** |
| 0x10     | 0x08          | **0x01** |
| 0x20     | 0x10          | **0x02** |
| 0x30     | 0x18          | **0x03** |
| 0x40     | 0x20          | **0x04** |
| 0x50     | 0x28          | **0x05** |
| 0x60     | 0x30          | **0x06** |
| 0x70     | 0x38          | **0x07** |
| 0x80     | 0x40 DEFAULT! |   0x08   |
| 0x90     | 0x48          | **0x09** |
| 0xA0     | 0x50          | **0x0A** |
| 0xB0     | 0x58          | **0x0B** |
| 0xC0     | 0x60          | **0x0C** |
| 0xD0     | 0x68          | **0x0D** |
| 0xE0     | 0x70          | **0x0E** |
| 0xF0     | 0x78          | **0x0F** |

Please do NOT choose `0x08` as the corresponding Salve ID is the default value.

The Slave ID is an I2C address for data writing. See Table.21 List of Slave ID in the [application note](http://www.sharp-world.com/products/device/lineup/data/pdf/datasheet/gp2y0e02_03_appl_e.pdf).

## Create a binary and flash it

See the description above.

## Open Terminal and connect the board

Push 'Reset' button after connecting it in order to display the prompt message.

## Connect the sensor

See the schematic above.

## Push button to start

Now ready for performing E-Fuse programmer. Push the blue button to continue.

# How to check if the address is updated

Open your terminal app and connect the board.

Keep 'Reset' button down. Push Button1 then release 'Reset' button. Finally, release Button1.

And you will see the distance in cm on your terminal console.

# Output Example

You can see the following output by connecting with a terminal app with baud rate 115200.

    ** Welcome to Address Programmer!
    ** I'll update the GP2Y0E03 I2C address from [0x80](Write) to [0x10](Write)
    ** You cannot revert the change once the address is updated
    ** Push Button1 to continue!
    +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
        L E T ' S   S T A R T ! ! !
    +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
    stage 1
    stage 2
    stage 3
    stage 4
    stage 5
    stage 6
    stage 7
    stage 8
    stage 9
    Check 0x27[4:0] => 0
    e_fuse_stage9():result => 0 (0=success)
    ===================================
               F I N I S H
    ===================================

# CAVEAT

The 'stage 10' functions like `e_fuse_stage10_1_1()` are never tested as I haven't failed to modify addresses yet.

# Revision History
* 1.1.0
  - Add a new mode allowing to test if a sensor works properly with the updated address
* 1.0.0
  - Initial Release

Commit message:

Deprecate the 0x0F data value as it breaks a sensor

README.md, after:

gp2y0e03-address-programmer
===

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/dbaba/gp2y0e03-address-programmer.svg)](https://github.com/dbaba/gp2y0e03-address-programmer/releases/latest)
[![License MIT](https://img.shields.io/github/license/dbaba/gp2y0e03-address-programmer.svg)](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

A tool for modifying [GP2Y0E03](http://www.sharp-world.com/products/device/lineup/data/pdf/datasheet/gp2y0e03_e.pdf) I2C address with E-Fuse running on mbed device.

# Schematic

    STM32F401RE Nucleo        GP2Y0E03
    +----------------+        +------+
    |           GND ------------ GND |
    |                |        |      |
    |      SDA(D14) -------+---- SDA |
    |                |     |  |      |
    |                |  <R4K7>|      |
    |                |     |  |      |
    |           3V3 -------+---- VIN |
    |                |     |  |      |
    |                |     +---- VDD |
    |                |     |  |      |
    |                |     +---- GPIO|
    |                |     |  |      |
    |                |  <R4K7>|      |
    |                |     |  |      |
    |      SCL(D15) -------+---- SCL |
    |                |        |      |
    |            D7 ------------ Vpp |
    |                |        |      |
    +----------------+        +------+

 * R4K7 ... 4.7K Ohm pull-up resistor
 * Vout(A) is never used for I2C

# How to setup (w/ ST Nucleo F401RE)

    yt target st-nucleo-f401re-gcc
    yt install

# How to flash

Copy `build/st-nucleo-f401re-gcc/source/gp2y0e03-address-programmer.bin` to the mbed folder or use st-flash as shown below.

    st-flash write build/st-nucleo-f401re-gcc/source/gp2y0e03-address-programmer.bin 0x8000000

# How to modify address

## Edit the address data

Open [app.cpp](source/app.cpp) and edit the following line to modify the address.

    #define NEW_ADDRESS_DATA 0x01

Note that `NEW_ADDRESS_DATA` is NOT a slave address. Choose the `Data` column value of the following table.

| Slave ID | 7-bit Address |   Data   |
|----------|---------------|----------|
| 0x00     | 0x00          | **0x00** |
| 0x10     | 0x08          | **0x01** |
| 0x20     | 0x10          | **0x02** |
| 0x30     | 0x18          | **0x03** |
| 0x40     | 0x20          | **0x04** |
| 0x50     | 0x28          | **0x05** |
| 0x60     | 0x30          | **0x06** |
| 0x70     | 0x38          | **0x07** |
| 0x80     | 0x40 DEFAULT! |   0x08   |
| 0x90     | 0x48          | **0x09** |
| 0xA0     | 0x50          | **0x0A** |
| 0xB0     | 0x58          | **0x0B** |
| 0xC0     | 0x60          | **0x0C** |
| 0xD0     | 0x68          | **0x0D** |
| 0xE0     | 0x70          | **0x0E** |
| 0xF0     | 0x78          | **DO NOT USE** |

Please do NOT choose `0x08` as the corresponding Salve ID is the default value.

Updating Slave ID to `0xF0` broke my sensors (I broke 3 sensors...). So I highly recommend you not to use the address `0xF0` (data for `0x0F`).

The Slave ID is an I2C address for data writing. See Table.21 List of Slave ID in the [application note](http://www.sharp-world.com/products/device/lineup/data/pdf/datasheet/gp2y0e02_03_appl_e.pdf).

## Create a binary and flash it

See the description above.

## Open Terminal and connect the board

Push 'Reset' button after connecting it in order to display the prompt message.

## Connect the sensor

See the schematic above.

## Push button to start

Now ready for performing E-Fuse programmer. Push the blue button to continue.

# How to check if the address is updated

Open your terminal app and connect the board.

Keep 'Reset' button down. Push Button1 then release 'Reset' button. Finally, release Button1.

And you will see the distance in cm on your terminal console.

# Output Example

You can see the following output by connecting with a terminal app with baud rate 115200.

    ** Welcome to Address Programmer!
    ** I'll update the GP2Y0E03 I2C address from [0x80](Write) to [0x10](Write)
    ** You cannot revert the change once the address is updated
    ** Push Button1 to continue!
    +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
        L E T ' S   S T A R T ! ! !
    +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
    stage 1
    stage 2
    stage 3
    stage 4
    stage 5
    stage 6
    stage 7
    stage 8
    stage 9
    Check 0x27[4:0] => 0
    e_fuse_stage9():result => 0 (0=success)
    ===================================
               F I N I S H
    ===================================

# CAVEAT

The 'stage 10' functions like `e_fuse_stage10_1_1()` are never tested as I haven't failed to modify addresses yet.

# Revision History
* 1.1.0
  - Add a new mode allowing to test if a sensor works properly with the updated address
* 1.0.0
  - Initial Release
